docs: Refactor ebpf installation (#2849)
grafana/pyroscope: docs/sources/configure-client/grafana-agent/ebpf/setup-kubernetes.md

---

> title: "Setup eBPF Profiling on Kubernetes"
> menuTitle: "Setting up on Kubernetes"
> description: "Setting up eBPF Profiling with Grafana Agent on Kubernetes"
> weight: 10
> ---
> 
> # Setup eBPF Profiling on Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Set up eBPF profiling on Kubernetes"
menuTitle: "Set up on Kubernetes"
description: "Set up eBPF profiling with Grafana Agent on Kubernetes."
weight: 10
---

# Set up eBPF profiling on Kubernetes
```

- Install the Grafana Agent.
- Finally, verify that profiles are received.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you need:

- [helm][helm] and [kubectl][kubectl] installed with access to your Kubernetes cluster.
- A Pyroscope server where the agent will send profiling data.
- Access to Grafana with the [Grafana Pyroscope datasource][pyroscope-ds] provisioned.

> Note: If you don't have a Grafana and/or a Pyroscope server, you can use the [Grafana Cloud][gcloud] free plan to get started.

## Verify that your cluster meets the requirements

The eBPF profiler requires a Linux kernel version >= 4.9 (due to [BPF_PROG_TYPE_PERF_EVENT](https://lkml.org/lkml/2016/9/1/831)).

`BPF_PROG_TYPE_PERF_EVENT` is a type of eBPF program that can be attached to hardware or software events, such as performance monitoring counters or tracepoints, in the Linux kernel.

To print the kernel version of each node in your cluster, run:

```shell
kubectl get nodes -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"\t"}{.status.nodeInfo.kernelVersion}{"\n"}{end}'
```

Make sure all nodes have a kernel version >= 4.9.

> ## Add the Grafana helm repository
> 
> We recommend using [helm][helm] to install the Grafana Agent. To add the Grafana helm repository, run:

Reviewer: Is `[Helm][helm]` correct?

```suggestion
## Add the Grafana Helm repository

We recommend using [Helm][helm] to install the Grafana Agent. To add the Grafana Helm repository, run:
```

## Create a Grafana Agent configuration file

Create a file named `values.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
agent:
  mode: 'flow'
  configMap:
    create: true
    content: |
      discovery.kubernetes "local_pods" {
        selectors {
          field = "spec.nodeName=" + env("HOSTNAME")
          role = "pod"
        }
        role = "pod"
      }
      pyroscope.ebpf "instance" {
        forward_to = [pyroscope.write.endpoint.receiver]
        targets = discovery.kubernetes.local_pods.targets
      }
      pyroscope.write "endpoint" {
        endpoint {
          basic_auth {
            password = "<PASSWORD>"
            username = "<USERNAME>"
          }
          url = "<URL>"
        }
      }

  securityContext:
    privileged: true
    runAsGroup: 0
    runAsUser: 0

controller:
  hostPID: true
```

Replace the `<URL>` placeholder with the appropriate server URL. This could be the Grafana Cloud URL or your own custom Pyroscope server URL.

If you need to send data to Grafana Cloud, you'll have to configure HTTP Basic authentication. Replace `<User>` with your Grafana Cloud stack user and `<Password>` with your Grafana Cloud API key.

> > If you're using your own Pyroscope server, you can remove the `basic_auth` section altogether.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
If you're using your own Pyroscope server, you can remove the `basic_auth` section altogether.
{{% /admonition %}}

For more information, refer to the [Configure the Grafana Pyroscope data source documentation](/docs/grafana-cloud/connect-externally-hosted/data-sources/grafana-pyroscope#configure-the-grafana-pyroscope-data-source).
```

## Install the Grafana Agent

To install the Grafana Agent, run:

```shell
helm install pyroscope-ebpf grafana/grafana-agent -f values.yaml
```

Once configured, the Agent will start collecting eBPF profiles and send them to the Pyroscope server.

## Verify profiles are received

> To verify that the profiles are received by the Pyroscope server, go to the Pyroscope UI or [Grafana Pyroscope datasource][pyroscope-ds]. Then select a profile type and a service from the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the profiles are received by the Pyroscope server, go to the Pyroscope UI or [Grafana Pyroscope datasource][pyroscope-ds]. Select a profile type and a service from the drop-down menu.
```
